Welcome to Heaven's Marketplace, 
Just inside the gates and down the second back alley on the left.

I've heard a thing or two about you. 
Call your story perilous or adventure,  
Name your sanctuary Paradise or Arcadia. 
It's right close, under the rainbow. 
And if you believe that, I got a bridge to sell you,
Along with other supplies... and secrets. 

Yeah, I know where you wanna go, and oh - 
I know how to get you there, but yo - 
only if you got the proper dosh. 
We'll discuss that later, after the show 

Let's talk lights, camera, action 
You'll need a GoPro, 
kindle, kindling 
tinderbox, tindr 		
mechanical pencils, 
backpacking utensils 
sponsors - fuck sponsors 
crowdfund this shit,

and get the fuck outta my shop 
if all you need are these basic ass amazon trinkets
I sell magic - who needs lightning deals 
when you have lightning in a bottle? 

Let's get down to business, 
this pilgrimage you're fin to kick off

The way is long and winding
You'll face down monsters up close, too close for comfort. 
An origami tiger may be small, but that's heavyweight parchment. 
The pair o' you on the prowl will send 'em howling 
all the way to the grave; death by a thousand. paper. cuts. 

But your own visage may grow clouded, and 
you'll shout and scowl at the ones you love.
When that happens, drain this bottle of snake oil.
Tastes like ipecac and castor with a shot of bitters,
hits like Elvish liquor brewed under dragon breath 
and infused with 

Which is actually a bottomless abyss. 
You may not see the bridge, but remember, you bought it. 
So take a leap of faith, and carry on your merry way. 

blind eye, I can't actually permanently part with this one,
but I'll lease it under an artistic license 

I'll put it all on your tab. 
You're good for it, right? 

but we never discussed what the payment actually was: 

give this poem a 10 
and I'll make all your dreams come true 
after all, isn't that what poets sell you? 



	more 
		hook, line, and sinker 
		journeying along a river? 
		just around the riverbend 