If You Ever Do Heroin 
I will break your fucking face and hope 
	you can feel it through the haze.

If you ever do heroin, 
I'll spit in your house and not visit your grave, 
	same thing.

If you ever do heroin, 
	I'll report you to CPS and take your kids away
raving about how they'll never touch even a gateway drug 
	the prospenity for self destruction clearly genetic
a proximity fuse that must be removed 
	every bedtime story will give them warnings 
and nightmares 
	they'll learn to fight there 
the darkness of their own minds
	where the light catching on the needle 
is a fatal distraction 
	turn back now, before you're blinded.

If you ever do heroin, 
	no meth for me, no mirror image - 
I am the mirror itself, 
	unflinching under your fists, 
reflecting the futility of your fight 
	against your own mistakes 
the blood staining your hands 
	even as you wipe it on my skin.

If you ever do heroin, 
	you will find from me no pity. 
You found the dotted vein and signed, 
	understanding you weren't risking anything at all - 
You have my guarantee; I'll eat these words
	and not speak in your defense again. 

If you ever do heroin, 
	I'll wonder how it came to this 
after all our conversations, 
	you frankly admitting that would be the end of it. 

It's harder to share poetry about someone you still talk with. 
Pardon me for paring down this last piece, but it starts: 

My friend keeps asking me how she can help 
It's impolite to say "Kill me and make it look like an accident"
if no one's sure you're joking, 
so I leave it at "Be the best person you can be,"
or sometimes just "You do you, man."

But heroin really wouldn't really be you doing you. 
It'd be you killing yourself and making it look like an accident. 
But I know better than the news clips 
and better than to joke about this. 
So don't fucking joke about heroin. 

You're clumsy, bad with money, 
	steering wheels, highway medians, and personal boundaries.
Already overdone it with alcohol and you're not even 21 yet, 
	smoking on the back porch, but heroin won't help none of that, 
and none of it could touch how bad 
	just one injection would attack: 
it'll burn through your veins and 
	terminate your nerve endings and 
tear out everything I ever loved about you; 
	the way you use a needle and thread, 
or weave penstrokes into a masterpiece,
	your hard-won dancing feet &
how you talk when you're sleepy; 
	but we all have weaknesses 
and it's not an addiction you could beat
	so please, don't do heroin. 