Foot Notes 
1 - (if you are watching this on mute, or you are deaf 
	(which really only means the tv is mute when speaking to you),
	understand that the subtitled portions are not meant to be said out loud.)

n		-	(XKCD 968 describes a magician.)
n + 1	-	(XKCD 1053 describes a magical unicorn.)
fin 	-	(ok, here's what happened: the Glass Wars were caused by this fucking AI, the first AI, 
			who infected eveyone around him with his thoughts, then all he could hear was himself thinking. 
			Reflections of human neural cortexes overpowered and charged wild with his faraday power.
			So he choked, and uploaded himself into a human body. 
			But the damage was already done. 
			Once he stopped propping them up, humanity's burned-out circutry went wild. 
			Half of them were already machines - literally, at that point. They were called Carriers.
			But it got worse when they were hacked, hijacked, by the AI.
			We know the human he uploaded himself into: Don K Con. 
			But he never shared his original designation, so it's just called the First AI.
			)
	
Title card 
The Don K Con Monologues 

Post-title card 
This Movie Has Subtitles [1]

Arial footage (selected-focus, )
Don K Kon is a dead DJ/MC coasting the beautiful wastelands of Protomorika [ed.: vs. New Amorika, which came after] in his custom-designed, life-sustaining sand skiff. Well, kind of. 

[cut to skeleton in sand skiff]
He uploaded his consciousness to a radio sand skipper. [ed.: sand skippers are one of the principal ground types in the Protomorika Glass Wars period. They feature boat-like fan blades mounted on a vertical axis,]


[texting 1-5]

[NARRATOR]:
I didn't write a nary of this prose, my doggerel, before I posted it. 
Not the flashing derringers, 


[NARRATOR:
The rules were simple, but of course, they changed as time went on [ed.: working version is overlay texting and narration about Mel, intersperse with minis (inc. Don K Con's skiff-carrier-mummy) and narration about Protomorika, show reading, close with final footnote and credits)

[NARRATOR]: 
I invented everything in the world around me. Why couldn't someone invent me? 

CREDITS 
Health - Death Magic - Track # ??? for inspiration 
Boy Genius - for my first beat 
Joyce & Austin - muses (in a sirenlike way)
