Song: Baby Video 2.0 
Tune: Alter Bridge - The End is Here - HunkE remix 

Bars 
	Intro - 	8 bars
	V1 - 		16 bars 
	Break 1 - 	2  bars 
	V2, 3 -		24 bars 
	Break - 	2  bars 
	V4 - 		8  bars 
	Outro - 	8  bars 
	
Breakdown 
	Intro	- 8 bars 
	V1 		- 8 bars 
	
	Break	- 2 bars 	(Chorus)
	
	Cont.	- 2 bars 	(Chorus cont)
	V2		- 8 bars 
	Chorus	- 4 bars 	(Whole Chorus)
	V3		- 8 bars 
	Cont.	- 2 bars 	(Chorus)
	
	Break	- 2 bars	(Chorus cont)
	
	V4		- 8 bars 
	
	Outro	- 8 bars 
				(with sample)
				
	Final Outro ("And even if I did" x3)
	
Lyrics
	
Intro:
	8 bars 
	shout out to my brother he love clubbing to the slow-burn bubbler
	got a preview cuddled with his ex lover on the leather sofa bed 
	
	
V1: 
	Haters throwing shade like it's a handout, pants down 
	when I'm on the stage and they in bathrooms, passed out 
	having too much fun with this a field day, track now
	hands down the greatest racing ever since the shot came 
	you a photobomber, just got lapped in the background 
	wiped out, sidelines, the game finish preg-enant 
	How? Well it's obvious, I'm still kicking it 
	the next stadium, there's really no ending it 
	
Chorus: [BREAK]
	Yeah! And let me tell you how it is 
	I'm a fucking sperm cell racing for the egg [/BREAK]
	so if I don't make it I know a brother did 
	just another wave breaking up against this bitch 
	
V2: 
	checking out my crown, then you best prepared to take it
	libraries are shutting down across the goddamn nation
	and you got some late fees from checking out these fake dreams
	self-help books but you left em on your third vacation
	I don't think you'll really take the weight of your mistakes
	could you lay it on song that's long enough to fill the place
	cap it with apology and babe, I'm still here waiting.
	Praying for a chance to pull around and here it is
	
Chorus: 
	Just another sperm sperm cell racing for the egg 
	so if I don't make it I know a brother did 
	life's a bitch especially in the middle of a breakup 
	bit my tongue on dirt until I could control my breath 
	
V3:
	Just another worm, on the pavement when the rain ends 
	If the kids eat me I'm headed straight for they brain stem 
	Legendary name, I coulda taken Lil Bun - be the 
	hottest homemadest motherfukker up in the oven 
	concentrated on frying rappers, [b?] that's small fish, little dishes 
	someone call hannibal lector [b] I need a witness 
	bout to be elected best butcher shop is business
	nahh, I'm just kidding, acuz there's really no difference 	

Chorus: 
("And the people in the back..." are my bros)
	so kindly remind me once again just what I am 
	I'm a fucking sperm cell racing for the egg [BREAK]
	so if I don't make it I know a brother did 
	just another wave breaking up against this bitch [/BREAK]
	
V4: (Veterancy)
	x	's why I still remain stable even when I'm faking 
	{bitch ass} rappers acting like they never been afraid 
	while the timid masses imitate, attempting to be great
	own up to my weakness, yeah I wear it every day 
	
	Slip and need a eulogy, 
	my crew'll spit it true to me  
	Closing up the ranks when 
	I take my place in history 
	
	's why I keep a brave face a' don't buy entertainment 
	telling me that's how it is or to accept my placement 
	
Outro: 
	this be that baby video
	parents play embarassing their kids in front of relatives
	you already know the bit but guess I'll say it once again 
	[Last bars (1/2) sampled]
	
Final Outro
	And even if I did... 
	And even if I did... 
	And even if I did... 